>> Mike North: We are going
to go through one of many
possible implementations of
a typed stack data structure,
where we have a type constraint in terms
of what we can push into this stack.
What we have in the screen now is the
interface that the stack must implement,
that's how we would describe this, right?
Whatever we make must
conform to this shape.
So just to recap,
we have to be able to push one item.
And we get the stack back out so
that we can chain these things together.
We can push many items at once,
using also a function called push.
So we have some overloading going on here,
right, two function signatures.
We can pop an item out, and
we have to be prepared for the situation
where we may get undefined, for example,
if there is nothing in the stack, right?
We might get undefined out.
We began today talking about
how types let us express
our intent better, and here it's very
clear that whoever receives this must
be prepared to potentially receive nothing
at all, right, receive an undefined.
And then we need functions
that return length and
print the contents of the stack out.
I did not define what print had to do,
but it's for
your debugging pleasure, you could
have taken that any way you wish.
And now we're gonna do npm test stack.
>> Mike North: All right,
seven failing tests.
So the stack's available,
new stack should have a size of zero,
pushing an item should
increase its size by one.
Pushing a few items in to the stack one
by one increases its size appropriately.
Pushing a few items into the stack at
once increases its size appropriately.
Apparently, I didn't rename
one of my tests here,
this is one of the things I
guess I forgot to double-check.
>> Mike North: Yep, actually,
it is a similar test, it's just in,
nope, it is not a similar test.
One by one, at once,
that is exactly the same assertion.
>> Mike North: Guess we don't need that.
>> Mike North: Okay, and
then finally the last items pushed
on are the first to pop off.
Last on, first off, right?
So we're pulling stuff off
of the top of the stack, and
then pop returns undefined
if the list is empty.
So that is our target, let's aim for it.
>> Mike North: So here's the stack,
and the first thing we do is
we'll say this class
implements the interface.
Oops, sorry, implements IStack.
And we're gonna say the Stack
receives a template parameter T, and
implements the IStack interface passing
the same template parameter along.
The complaint we're getting
at now is it saying,
well, now go ahead, implement this stuff.
So I'll just paste that down here.
And now we've kind of like, we've made
this interface part of the equation happy.
It's saying, well, okay,
we have some stuff, but now
the implementation is missing, and it's
not immediately following the declaration.
And by the way, in a situation where you
have, remember we had like red lines all
over the place when we were sort of
midway through some of these solutions?
This is a nice way to sort of get
a small error, to not bombard
yourself with indications as you
flush this kind of thing out.
This is sort if a more subdued
situation we got going on here.
So I'm going to implement this
as a linked list based stack,
just for more excuses to use types.
>> Mike North: And we'll call this
an interface that's a StackNode.
I could create a new class,
I don't really need to because
this is really just about data.
And I can just look with object literals,
I don't really get
benefits of a class other than
being able to refer to it by name.
So we'll say that this is gonna
have a property data called T,
and it's gonna have basically a pointer or
a reference to another
node of the same name.
So this is basically like it
has the thing of interest,
the value of interest, and an edge
to the next item in the linked list.
So we can kinda chain these together.
So within the stack I can
have my data stored as so,
private IStackNode, or sorry, private,
>> Mike North: Head of type IStackNode.
>> Mike North: And we'll just
leave it undefined there, right?
So here, only within this function,
can we access this.
The world of prepending underscores
before variable names to indicate
privateness is a thing of the past,
we don't have to do that TypeScript.
This is actually private,
not just improper to touch.
I guess, is that the right way to
describe the way we treat underscores?
So now,
this puts us in an okay state here where
we can start working with this stuff.
So let's do print first because I feel
that'll be something useful as we
start flushing out this class,
we'll need to see what this looks like.
So what I'm gonna do is I'll say,
we'll grab the head node,
which we can do because it's private.
And then while the node is still truthy,
>> Mike North: Log
out the data,
>> Mike North: And
traverse to the next node.
So we're gonna walk along from the head
node all the way until we get basically
an undefined for that next value, which
means we're at the tail of the link list.
And,
>> Mike North: We'll
just change all these to functions,
just to quiet some more complaints there.
Okay, so now print works.
So length, length is gonna actually
operate in a very similar way.
>> Mike North: That's fine, right?
So we're gonna walk along the list and
count our steps.
>> Mike North: So you don't get
rid of that, collapse that down,
collapse this down.
Okay, pop, pop is pretty easy.
So we can say,
>> Mike North: We'll
say,
>> Mike North: So
we're gonna get the node,
>> Mike North: And
then the new head equals next.
>> Mike North: We'll
come back to that later,
we still have to handle the case
where the node might not be there.
And in fact, we can just do this,
>> Mike North: Good enough, right?
Early termination there.
So pop looks okay.
All right, now it's time for push.
I wanna handle this one first,
and we'll say items.forEach, and
we'll pass in a nice
little error function.
>> Mike North: I'm just gonna lean on
the existing function that I have, right?
I'm gonna route everything through
the original push method up here.
This is complaining, why?
Duplicate function implementation.
Okay, so now we're at a point where we
have to tackle this overloading issue.
Here's how we're gonna do it.
One, two, so these are our two
usable heads, this is the third one.
And we'll use this union type here.
It's a T or a T array, it's one or
the other, only those two types will work.
And again, this is the unaccessible one,
the implementation not
accessible directly.
>> Mike North: And
in here we can say if, so
we need a way to detect whether this
is an array, and we're not gonna get
instance of does not return a string
array, it's gonna give us an object.
But we can use an indirect method to
do this like if, we can try this.
>> Mike North: Let's see if that works.
>> Mike North: Yep,
looks like the type card works there.
So instance of works as well.
>> Mike North: So in this situation,
actually we'll need to return this in
either case no matter what,
so we'll leave that in place.
Here we are going to
push each of the items,
and then down here our job
is to push a single item.
And once we implement this, I think we
are probably gonna pass all of our tests.
In this situation we're gonna say, so
we've got a current head node, we'll say,
create a new node, data: item.
Actually, let's call this,
>> Mike North: Just
to be really clear about it,
item or array.
So in this situation it's not smart enough
to understand that
the only other situation,
it must be a single type T, right?
Type of, it was able to figure it out.
Here, instance of,
it's a little bit more vague of a request,
simply because there's so
many prototypes out there.
When we're saying type of,
it knows that this is a union type,
these are the two things it can be, and
it can basically cross one thing out.
So that's something
that it can figure out.
Instance of is a much
harder question to ask.
What if it's a sub-class of my array,
right?
If I had a subclass of my array,
>> Mike North: This would not work.
So here we go, we're gonna have to say
itemOrArray as T, we can do our past here.
And then next is going
to be the current head.
>> Mike North: And then now we make
this node that we just created the head.
>> Mike North: And
we end up passing all of the tests.
>> Mike North: So in summary,
let's expand all of this out.
>> Mike North: So just starting from the
bottom, we walked our linked list, right?
We've got just a very
simple linked list node.
It's got the data of interest and
an edge to the next node that
we can use to traverse the list.
Getting the length of a linked list
is an expensive operation compared to
an array cuz we don't know its length.
This is the price we pay for
the ability to add things in the middle
really quickly with that reallocating.
Popping a linked list is relatively easy.
And here we see that the undefined
situation is pretty simple to handle.
We just we return a union type, and
any one who pops must be prepared, right?
You can't simply say, I've got a new list.
Let so l equals new Stack of type number,
and then say let x:number equal l.pop.
It's basically gonna say, hey,
be advised, TypeScript is telling you,
remember this is not guaranteed
to give you something,
there are scenarios where
this might be empty.
And so now you have to handle that or
you have to say I take the risk, right?
I take the risk looks like this, look,
because of how I'm using this,
I know I'm always going to have something.
But now you got some feedback telling you,
reminding you that technically
this can return undefined, and it's up to
us to kind of handle that in some way.
In JavaScript there's nothing
to tell you this, there's so
much of this kinda stuff that we forget.
When I tell you TypeScript will
help you write more robust code,
this is exactly what I mean.
And then we implemented using
function overloading here.
We have two heads, one for
pushing a single item, one for
pushing multiple items at once.
And then we have a union type here where
we're saying, take either of these.
So that is a broad enough type of argument
to handle both of these cases here.
And within the single function, we handle
both of those cases using a condition.
And instance of turns out to be
a type guard that allows us,
within this block statement,
we know that item or
array is definitely
an instance of an array.
Unfortunately, I don't think we can do,
yeah,
we can't do that cuz that would
require some serious backflips.
Cuz that's not something
JavaScript can do,
TypeScript would have to handle it for us.
Any questions about this?
Did this exercise help you kind of play
with the overloading a little bit?
And are we starting to
see that this structure
gives us a safer class to play with and
would never be possible with JavaScript?
I love this, this is the kinda stuff I've
been missing from front-end development.
So tomorrow what we're gonna do is
a series of exercises based on a single
project, and that is a React component
that we'll build using TypeScript for
an auto-complete that hits
the Google Places API.
And so it'll give you relevant
location-based data about restaurants and
things around wherever you happen to be.
We're going to build the React component.
And we're going to handle the asynchronous
work that goes on using async and
await, which is a way of
writing asynchronous code
in such a way that it almost
looks like synchronous code.
Before we use it,
I'm going to help us get to the point
where we can build something that's
almost like our own async and
await using something called
the generator function,
where we can pause execution at various
points and wait for promises to resolve.
By the end of that, you will all
understand fundamentally how this looks.
And it belongs in a TypeScript course
because this has been in TypeScript for
ages.
And while it is a relatively new thing in
the JavaScript world, async and await,
they've been in TypeScript
applications for ages.
So it is much more of a common
practice to use there.
So i'll see you tomorrow, and
look forward to that,
a bigger project in four or five stages.